Hi there!
So today we are going to build upon our previous video,
and modify our code, or Spider code, better said,
and we will iterate over pages of results,
with Scrapy not with Selenium.
So let's first remove the unnecessary code
that we have here.
So we will not use time import.
We will also not use Selenium.
Also Scrapy selectors, we don't need this.
Requests, we'll keep this,
and NoSuchElementException will be removed.
Let's see what else needs to be removed from here so,
start_urls has to be added,
and this is going to be in a form of a list,
so the starting url would be this one,
and we don't need this function,
and while True, and except logic,
we also don't need this,
and we can
remove or just rename this function.
So let's start.
So this would be the starting URL.
It will go to the homepage as it is,
and it will just go to the parse,
and the response would be
HTML page from this URL,
and currently we are just passing it,
so let's actually see if everything is working correctly.
Seems like everything is working right.
And right now, what we need to do,
is go back to the Chrome,
mainly in our Inspect tool,
and then navigate and try
to Inspect the book URLs,
which are going to be in the <h3> and then <a> tag.
We already covered this in the last two videos,
so let's just type in, in the books,
over in the parse,
methods, books variable,
so this would be response.xpath
And let's actually
go in our Scrapy Shell,
and see if this is going to be the right URLs.
Let's see.
So we type in response.xpath, and then let's see.
We need to select every instance,
or we are typing "/".
So every instance of the <h3> tag,
and then we need to go into <a> tag,
and then scrape the href from every <a> tag.
So pretty simple.
So every <h3> tag and then we need to go into <a> tag.
Finally we extract the href,
or the URL, and call extract().
And let's see.
So there should be 20 URLs here.
So let's see.
Perfect, there are 20 URLs.
Of course, these are not the URLs that are completed.
These are just partial URLs,
and we will use the response.urljoin to complete it.
But let's concentrate right now
on copying and pasting it into our code.
So the books is the variable name,
and then right away we will start
to iterate over each book or the book URL.
And so for book in books, we will call then
absolute_url = response.uljoin
and then we will call the book in it,
and finally we will just yield the Request,
and Request will be the URL,
to the Request is going to be the absolute URL.
callback function is just going to be called
ah, let's see self.parse_book for example.
Let's define our function self and then response.
And we can pass it for now.
Let's actually see if this is all working together nicely.
And seems like it's working, so perfect.
Let's get back to our code,
and see what else needs to be added.
So we are currently just in the homepage,
and we are scraping 20 or so URLs.
Let's see, so 20 or so URLs to the books.
What we need to do next is Inspect this next button,
and see if it contains the URL, which it does,
so we are going to pretty much,
what is going to be the best way,
my way of doing this is pretty much,
that we are going to, let's go to our Shell.
So response.xpath and then we will select every <a> tag.
So once again this button is in the <a> tag
because it contains href,
and we will contain, or collect
every <a> tag that has the "next" in it.
So currently there is just, let's see,
going to be this, or really just one.
Sometimes there is next here, and also next,
or iteration over pages on two places,
but that doesn't really matter too much
because we are going to,
because they are really just the same.
So we are going to once again grab every <a> tag,
and then we will call to it to,
well pretty much it has to contain the text,
and this is the syntax,
the text that we are going to select is going to be "next",
so currently we are selecting this instance,
because it contains next string in the <a> tag,
as you can see.
So we will call extract_first(),
and let's see what it yields,
and also we need to select of course,
the href and this is perfect.
Once again it has to be,
or it has to contain the absolute URL,
and this is just partial URL.
Let's go back to our code.
And then just write the comment
to process next page.
Let's call the next_page_url
is going to be equal to this statement,
and then we will call absolute_next_page_url
is going to be equal to response.urljoin
and then we'll,
put the next_page_url in it.
And finally we will just yield the Request.
So pretty simple.
The callback is going to be this function.
So the parse one, because it's going to process
each and every pages.
Let's see, in this case, it will be 50 or so pages.
So let's see if this is going to work.
So yield the Request and then the URL is going to be
the absolute_next_page_url,
and let me remember if it has to contain the callback,
I don't think it has to,
so let's actually try it and see if it works.
Perfect, so it works.
As you can see 200s are, the response statuses,
And there should be 1050 URLs processed.
So let's see.
Perfect.
So this is because there are 1000 books
and because there is 50 pages,
so 1000+50 is going to be 1050, obviously.
So everything is working correctly.
We don't get any type of ERRORs,
only DEBUG and INFO messages,
and that, that will be pretty much it for this video,
and as you can see it's a lot faster than Selenium,
probably 10 plus times faster
than using something like selenium,
and in the very next one,
we will actually go to our books,
and then collect stuff like title,
price, product description, and then write the function
that will simplify grabbing this five or six data points.
Talk soon!